config/README.md, before:

# Configuration Guide

This document explains:

1. **Required input files** to be placed in the `raw_data` directory.  
2. **Configuration parameters** to set in `config/config.yml`.

---

## 1. Input Files (`raw_data/`)

The pipeline requires **both PacBio HiFi reads** and **paired-end RNA-seq reads**.

Place your raw sequencing files in the `raw_data` directory with the following naming conventions:

| File Type                  | Naming Pattern               | Example                                    |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| PacBio HiFi reads          | `*.hifi_reads.bam` | `SAMPLE1.hifi_reads.bam`                    |
| Index for HiFi reads  | `*.hifi_reads.bam.pbi` | `SAMPLE1.hifi_reads.bam.pbi`                    |
| Paired-end RNA-seq (R1)    | `*_1.fastq.gz`        | `RNASEQ1_1.fastq.gz`                       |
| Paired-end RNA-seq (R2)    | `*_2.fastq.gz`        | `RNASEQ1_2.fastq.gz`                       |

**Notes:**

- The pipeline will automatically detect and process multiple BacBio HiFi and RNA-seq samples, if present.

---

## 2. Configuration File (`config/config.yml`)

Edit `config/config.yml` to match your dataset and analysis requirements.  
Below are the available parameters:

| Parameter               | Description                                                  | Example                                    |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| `assembly_name`          | Name used for output files | Dioncophyllum_thollonii |
| `fcs_gx_taxid`          | NCBI Taxonomy ID for FCS-GX screening. [NCBI Taxonomy Tree](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/taxonomy/tree/) | `"122299"` for *Dioncophyllum thollonii* |
| `busco_lineage_dataset` | BUSCO lineage dataset for genome completeness assessment. [Lineage list](https://busco-data.ezlab.org/v5/data/lineages/) | `"embryophyta_odb12"`                      |
| `tidk_clade` | Clade for [tidk find](https://github.com/tolkit/telomeric-identifier). [Lineage list](https://github.com/tolkit/telomeric-identifier?tab=readme-ov-file#find) | `"Caryophyllales"`|
| `tidk_telomeric_repeat_unit` | A telomeric repeat unit for [tidk search](https://github.com/tolkit/telomeric-identifier). [A Telomeric Repeat Database](https://github.com/tolkit/a-telomeric-repeat-database) | `"AAACCCT"`|
| `dfam_version`          | Version of the Dfam database for RepeatMasker. [Dfam releases](https://www.dfam.org) | `"3.9"`                                    |
| `dfam_partitions`       | Dfam partitions. See [README.txt](https://www.dfam.org/releases/current/families/FamDB/README.txt). | `"0,5,6"` (Viridiplantae)                      |
| `dfam_lineage_name`     | Name of the Dfam lineage to use.                             | `"Viridiplantae"`                          |
| `orthodb_version`       | Version of the OrthoDB database (used by Braker3). [ProtHint instructions](https://github.com/gatech-genemark/ProtHint#protein-database-preparation) | `"12"`                                     |
| `orthodb_lineage`       | OrthoDB lineage dataset to use. [Lineage list](https://bioinf.uni-greifswald.de/bioinf/partitioned_odb12/) | `"Viridiplantae"`                          |
| `orthodb_md5sum`        | MD5 checksum of the OrthoDB database. [Checksums](https://bioinf.uni-greifswald.de/bioinf/partitioned_odb12/) | `"34c1f027a1a7b10f225b69fbd5500587"`       |

Commit message:

Update config description for Oatk

config/README.md, after:

# Configuration Guide

This document explains:

1. **Required input files** to be placed in the `raw_data` directory.  
2. **Configuration parameters** to set in `config/config.yml`.

---

## 1. Input Files (`raw_data/`)

The pipeline requires **both PacBio HiFi reads** and **paired-end RNA-seq reads**.

Place your raw sequencing files in the `raw_data` directory with the following naming conventions:

| File Type                  | Naming Pattern               | Example                                    |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| PacBio HiFi reads          | `*.hifi_reads.bam` | `SAMPLE1.hifi_reads.bam`                    |
| Index for HiFi reads  | `*.hifi_reads.bam.pbi` | `SAMPLE1.hifi_reads.bam.pbi`                    |
| Paired-end RNA-seq (R1)    | `*_1.fastq.gz`        | `RNASEQ1_1.fastq.gz`                       |
| Paired-end RNA-seq (R2)    | `*_2.fastq.gz`        | `RNASEQ1_2.fastq.gz`                       |

**Notes:**

- The pipeline will automatically detect and process multiple BacBio HiFi and RNA-seq samples, if present.

---

## 2. Configuration File (`config/config.yml`)

Edit `config/config.yml` to match your dataset and analysis requirements.  
Below are the available parameters:

| Parameter               | Description                                                  | Example                                    |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| `assembly_name`         | Name used for output files | Dioncophyllum_thollonii |
| `oatk_lineage`          | Lineage of the Oatk HMM profile database. [Lineage list](https://github.com/c-zhou/OatkDB/blob/main/v20230921/TAXID) | `"magnoliopsida"` |
| `oatk_organelle`        | Organelle to assemble. `{"mito", "pltd", "mito_and_pltd"}`  | `"mito_and_pltd"` |
| `oatk_minimum_kmer_coverage`| Minimum kmer coverage used for Oatk. [Instructions](https://github.com/c-zhou/oatk)  | `"250"` |
| `fcs_gx_taxid`          | NCBI Taxonomy ID for FCS-GX screening. [NCBI Taxonomy Tree](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/taxonomy/tree/) | `"122299"` for *Dioncophyllum thollonii* |
| `busco_lineage_dataset` | BUSCO lineage dataset for genome completeness assessment. [Lineage list](https://busco-data.ezlab.org/v5/data/lineages/) | `"embryophyta_odb12"`                      |
| `tidk_clade`            | Clade for [tidk find](https://github.com/tolkit/telomeric-identifier). [Lineage list](https://github.com/tolkit/telomeric-identifier?tab=readme-ov-file#find) | `"Caryophyllales"`|
| `tidk_telomeric_repeat_unit` | A telomeric repeat unit for [tidk search](https://github.com/tolkit/telomeric-identifier). [A Telomeric Repeat Database](https://github.com/tolkit/a-telomeric-repeat-database) | `"AAACCCT"`|
| `dfam_version`          | Version of the Dfam database for RepeatMasker. [Dfam releases](https://www.dfam.org) | `"3.9"`                                    |
| `dfam_partitions`       | Dfam partitions. See [README.txt](https://www.dfam.org/releases/current/families/FamDB/README.txt). | `"0,5,6"` (Viridiplantae)                      |
| `dfam_lineage_name`     | Name of the Dfam lineage to use.                             | `"Viridiplantae"`                          |
| `orthodb_version`       | Version of the OrthoDB database (used by Braker3). [ProtHint instructions](https://github.com/gatech-genemark/ProtHint#protein-database-preparation) | `"12"`                                     |
| `orthodb_lineage`       | OrthoDB lineage dataset to use. [Lineage list](https://bioinf.uni-greifswald.de/bioinf/partitioned_odb12/) | `"Viridiplantae"`                          |
| `orthodb_md5sum`        | MD5 checksum of the OrthoDB database. [Checksums](https://bioinf.uni-greifswald.de/bioinf/partitioned_odb12/) | `"34c1f027a1a7b10f225b69fbd5500587"`       |
